---
layout: post
title:  "Web Unleashed 2018"
date:   2018-10-10 21:12:39 -0400
categories: Conference
---

This past week I won conference tickets to Web Unleashed 2018 in Toronto. Thanks to Simon MacDonald and Ottawa JS Meetup. I was extremely excited as this was my first time attending a 'profesional' conference. I have attended conferences before as a student and I have always enjoyed my time. This time was no different. I had a great time talking to various developers from different companies(Questrade, Global News, etc....) and skill sets. As far as the talks, I varied the talks that I attended from work related (accessibility, legacy code) to personal interest (Web Hacking, Web Optimization). I think this was a great strategy as I could share what I learned with my team and hopefully get sponsored for another conference next year ;). 

The following are some rough notes that I took. 

Responsive design
pattern driven design
the-toast.com
what if the someone doesnt browse the web like i do?
theguardian.com main hero
small screen -> large screen
style guide why how 
starbucks style guide
ushahidi pattern library 
hawaii houkul e
the language of modular design bt alla khomoltova 
the nwxt billion -less developed nations

Think like a hacker 
http://chmodxx.net
xss check for file type
stored xss
reflected xss

Serverless
https://www.slideshare.net/mobile/fitc_slideshare/
apex framework
s3 + lamda
 when to use?

- website/apis
- event streaming
- iot 
- image/video manipulation
- ci

Why?
lots of learning overhead

Planet of the APIs
network conectivity
2g vs 4g vs etc
still loading lots of data for both mobile and desktop
Paint timing API/critical rendering path
Intersection Observer API ~ lazy loading 
Media capabilities API
Network information API
bad rtt -> bad connection
Battery status api
deprecated?
web hints
webpagetest.org
lighthouse

Our Human Experience
james wildman experiment 
google translate gender bias 
turkish to english 



Prototyping for speed and scale
Carl Sziebert
dont release major between thanksgiving and new year 

Your CSS Layout Toolkit
flexbox centering!
2d grid

day 2
Typescript
add ts docs to js files to get intelisense in vscode. ts-check, type annotation etc
>100ms is where humans notice the sub optimal experience 
DefinitelyTyped open source project

Incremental Development: Maintaining and Improving Long-Lived Websites
"mold on our code"
linters*
Working effectively with legacy code
Characterization tests
--How?
documentation
Code style guides
Design patterns
Featue flags
Releases  and change logs
--Example
twitter search slack legacy code

Accessibility TO-DOs
majority of disposable income is held by older people
return on accesibility business case
microsoft inclusive design toolkit
wcag
accesibility starts at the wireframe stage 
—how to start
wcag checklist
build accesibility toolkit
google developer accessibility 
egghead.io accessibility 
toronto accessibility meetup twitter
—bake in accessibility
documentation
component library
aria attributes
screen keyboard interaction
fast/slow internet
mac voice over tutorial
--qa
Achecker
wcag guidelines
write test cases against wcag, need to be included in acceptance tests
language: click vs select vs navigate
tools: axecore https://github.com/dequelabs/axe-core
automation only catches 40%
need to run over screen reader and different browser
code review proper heading, links, attr
dev needs to lookout for lost focus
tool nerdy focus, ebay mind patterns
--tasks
site + content
success org have accessibility gate keepers 
zoom to 200% 
look at various text size
mousebucket challenge 
choose one guideline per month example img aria attributes, alt tags, descriptibe text
today > yesterday 
scott ohara accesible modal dialogs 
accessibility is part of your profesion 
—how to start
be a champion
guild, lunch and learn 

Buy in

HYPERlight weight sites
inline css, everything 
example tornado.py
use html5 semantic elems
relative layout using root em sizing
css grids
html5 templates
Use css selector instead of js
replace Svg  w/ html and css
Responsive inages with srcset
Gzip to compress

Brotli *new googke tech
Http/2 pippelining 
--tool sitespeed, webpagetest.org

Machine Learning

Design system
ux.mailchimp.com
styleguides.io great example of style guides from different orgs 
ROI**s
Components vs Pages 
Check out bootstrap codebase
define css architecture 
media query placement 
Base styles -> typograpgy -> patterns
**BEM do not have to handle specificity 

--tool
cssstats.com
